# Instructions for Using Codes and Tools in this Folder
These are the codes used in the examples of my PhD thesis. These programs are written in AUTO-07p and Python3. The examples are performed using the AUTO-07p software package. 

## AUTO-07p Configuration

AUTO-07p is an easy-to-use software package. To install this software package, unzip the provided "auto-07p-master.zip file" and navigate to its parent folder. Then configure the files by running '.\configure' in the terminal. After successful configuration, execute 'make all'. Then, add the path of the bin folder to your system path file by appending the line "path_to_auto/bin" to your bash file. The installation can be verified by running 'auto' in the terminal. Once installed, the codes can be run easily through auto scripts (auto.filename). To run these scripts, run auto auto.filename in the terminal window. These scripts make use of input files (`filename.f90`) and constants files (`c.constants`) where the parameters running the continuation can be tuned. The variables in c.constants files and script files can be adjusted as per the requirement. Once, the computation is complete, the solution files are written in a "s.filename" file. An example of a solution file (s.file) can be found in "Kirchoff_Rod/Conserved_quantites".  These files are analyzed and plotted using Python tools provided in the respective folders. Ensure that the necessary Python dependencies, including numpy and matplotlib, are installed.

## Instructions for using the codes in the folder "Kirchoff_Rod" 

### Bifurcation Surface Generation:

There are three types of codes in this folder. The first type of code is used for generating bifurcation surfaces. Navigate to the folder "Kirchhoff_Rod" and execute the desired script file. Six script files corresponding to six cases can be seen here, namely 1."Rod_FixedL_varyingF.auto", 2."Rod_FixedF_varyingL.auto", 3."Rod_arm_fixedL_varyingF.auto", 4."Rod_arm_fixedF_varyingL.auto", 5.Rod_torsion_fixedL_varyingF.auto, 6."Rod_torsion_fixedF_varyingL.auto".

Run the script file, say Rod_FixedL_varyingF.auto by typing "auto Rod_FixedL_varyingF.auto" in terminal. As the name suggests, this script file generates numerical continuation solutions in $\theta$ for different Tip Loads $F$ at fixed Length $L$. Use the Python plotting tools in the "Plotting_tools" folder to generate bifurcation surface plots. Run the Python code followed by the solution file (s.filename) to obtain the corresponding bifurcation surface plots. Make sure that you are running the Python plotting code with appropriate solution files. The Python code "surface_plot_fixed_length.py" with tag "fixed_length" works only with the solution files generated with the cases of fixed length such as 1,3,5. Otherwise, the program terminates with an error. Therefore, use solutions generated from 1,3,5 with "surface_plot_fixed_length.py" and solutions from 2,4,6
with "surface_plot_fixed_load.py" to generate the respective bifurcation surfaces.

### Stability Analysis:

The second type of code is used for analyzing the stability of equilibrium by computing conjugate points. To perform these computations, access the folder "Kirchhoff_rod_with_Jacobi_equations" and run "auto data_for_conjugatepoints.auto" in the terminal. This run will generate the solutions pertaining to equilibria along with the solutions of Jacobi equations in the solution file (s.filename). Then, run the Python code "Conjugate_points.py" followed by the solution file (s.filename) to visualize the computation of conjugate points. The labels of the equilibria for which the conjugate point computations are displayed can be controlled inside the Python file. These labels can be accessed during the auto run or also can be set in the constants file (c.filename) of auto. Different cases of equilibria can be analyzed by controlling the parameters in the script file "auto data_for_conjugatepoints.auto". Jupyter notebook version for these computations is also provided.
